My name is Yen, and today I would like to
tell you this: I am
fortunate to have come to know a very
wonderful religion, Buddhism. When
I learn about it, I find that I can apply it to
many situations
in my life, making
my life more beautiful and complete.
However, my heart
truly desires to follow the Buddha,
but I haven't taken refuge yet. The reason is
this: taking refuge would definitely
require attending regular activities, and due to
the nature of my studies and
other regular work,
which are related to finances, it would be
very
difficult to attend those activities regularly.
So, I would like to ask you, in your opinion,
should I take refuge? And if I do, given
my living conditions, is it
advisable? Thank you, teacher. Regarding
taking refuge in the Three Jewels, it's not yet about
attending activities in
Buddhist temples, my dear. It's not yet about taking refuge in the Three Jewels.
I made a vow to take refuge in the Buddha, to take
refuge in the Buddha's teachings, to take
refuge in the Sangha to learn the Buddha's teachings and
practice them, not to
join a monastery. That's
not right, so you can just take refuge. Joining a
monastery also has benefits, but it does
n't mean
you're obligated to participate in activities or perform
duties.
You just need to tell the monastery
leader that due to work, you
can't attend. Taking refuge in the Three Jewels
doesn't require joining a monastery,
but you still
benefit from it. When you have work to do, the
monastery will help you, and you'll know you have a
place to rely on for
support. And,
teacher, I would like to ask you
another related question:
when working in economics,
especially in management, there are
inevitably some
rules
that I can't
avoid. For example, when entertaining
guests, there are certain things...  That
can only be limited, it's
impossible to completely avoid it. So, according to you, do
such things cause us to
lose merit? What I mean is, entertaining
guests involves serving savory food, maybe
a little wine or something like that. Yes,
I hope you can explain it to me so I
understand better. Oh, thank you. Now, we
need to find out what the word "merit" means.
Merit is born from not
killing, not stealing, not committing adultery, not lying, not getting drunk or
addicted. That's what merit is born.
If we don't uphold those things,
we don't get merit, it doesn't
diminish merit. Understood? We don't do
anything to diminish it. That means if we
don't kill, we will receive
merit, but if we kill, the
karmic consequences are just corresponding,
not because we take refuge in Buddhism and kill, the karmic consequences are
heavy. Do you understand this point? For
example, the precepts
of Buddhism are like the skull and crossbones warning sign
at the power station; it
says, "Don't climb up there."  It's
deadly dangerous up here, but if
anyone climbs up, they'll still get
electrocuted and die. The Buddhist precepts
only warn us that if we
do these things, we'll suffer the consequences. It's
not that taking refuge in Buddhism and breaking the precepts makes the
sin heavier. It's not that the sin
is a sin, but taking refuge in Buddhism helps
us to be more aware. If we
don't know the precepts and the law of
karma, we'll commit the sin ten times. But if we know, even if we commit it ten times,
each time we can still
repent. Isn't that better? Isn't that more precious?
Like before, we did
n't repent. Now, we do repent. That means
it opens up. That wound, which was
worth ten, is now only
eight, right? So there's nothing to fear.
And let me reiterate that
in the Buddhist precepts for lay
Buddhists, it's not about
forbidding drinking alcohol, but about forbidding drunkenness and addiction,
because drunkenness and
addiction will bring
suffering to that Buddhist in this life. For example, if
you get drunk and addicted, you'll get
sick.  No, if anyone forces
others who aren't Buddhists to follow their precepts, they'll
still suffer the consequences of karma. So, take refuge in the Buddha
and make vows to observe the precepts. The more you observe, the more blessings
you'll receive. If you
don't observe,
karma will still operate as it does.
It's not like karma has eyes
or is biased, is it? It won't say, "
You're a great son of the Buddha, so I'll crush
you more." It's not like that; karma
is the inevitable operation of every
sentient being. So, if you're a
robber
and you kill someone, that's already your evil nature, killing
is a sin. But if someone says, "
Even if you repent,
you'll still gain more
blessings." So, taking refuge in the
Buddha is beneficial in every way, there's no harm in it.
[Applause]
Oh
[music]